welcome back to movie recaps today i will show you
an action drama thriller film from 2018 titled red
sparrow spoilers ahead watch out and take care the
story begins by jumping back and forth between the
lives of our two protagonists in russia first
there is dominica igrova a famous ballerina that
is in charge of taking care of her sick mom after
a visit to the doctor dominical leaves her mother
with a caretaker so she can go to work once in
the theater she changes and puts on makeup before
going to meet the guests which include her uncle
yvonne eagrove deputy director of russian secret
service he introduces her to dmitry ustanov a
russian gangster that asks her for a picture and
takes the chance to touch her improperly moments
later the play begins and dominica is dancing as
wonderfully as ever when suddenly his dancing
partner jumps and lands on her leg breaking it
dominica is immediately taken to have surgery the
other character we follow is nate nash a cia agent
who is taking a phone call from an automatic
caller that dictates some words to him
he uses those words to decode the address of
a meeting location and he takes his gun with
him before leaving the chosen spot for the secret
meeting is the park at night and when he arrives
there he notices he's being followed by a car a
mysterious man codename marble is walking towards
him as well and nate hands him something as they
cross each other on the road before they go on as
if nothing happened the car is still following him
though so to give the man a chance to escape nate
creates a distraction by shooting the floor
and starts running away as the car gives him
chase he reaches town and is surrounded by the
police just as he makes it to the american embassy
inside he meets with his bosses who tell him the
asset is safe but nate will still be sent back to
the usa for his mistake the next day ivan visits
colonel zakharov director of the secret service
in his office general vladimir korchnoy is there
as well they show yvonne a video of nate's meeting
at the park and mention he's a cia agent that left
the country that morning but their main interest
lies in the other man and finding out his identity
we cut to dominica then who is waking up at the
hospital to find her leg in a metal frame she
starts crying when she realizes she won't be able
to dance again three months pass dominica who is
still walking with the aid of a cane is visited by
yvonne he comments on the fact a replacement for
her has already been found and how the theater had
been lending them the apartment and covering her
mom's medical expenses all that will stop soon now
that she doesn't work for them anymore yvonne says
he wants to help her and asks her to come to him
when she's ready he also leaves an envelope for
her before leaving dominica opens the envelope and
finds pictures that show her dancing partner has
been romantically involved with her replacement
plus a recording of a conversation between them
that implies he jumped on her on purpose so his
girlfriend could take dominica's place later that
day we find dominica in the theater watching her
former partner and the new girl practice after
they're done they go to the steam room and
dominica follows them only to find them having
relations rage takes over and dominica starts
using her cane to beat them both to the ground
before running away on the bus home she sees her
hands stained with blood and decides to get off
stopping by a pay phone to report what she did as
an accident when she arrives at her apartment she
finds her mom on the bathroom floor the caretaker
nowhere in sight her mom tells her she didn't
come because the theater stopped paying her
knowing she has no other choice now dominica
goes to see her uncle to ask him for help he
accepts as long as she helps him in return with a
little case the secret service wants to know more
about ustinov whom dominica had met at the theater
yvonne wants her to approach him befriend him and
gain his trust using her charms dominica at first
refuses but yvonne wins her over by reminding her
how awful state hospitals are and how he can give
her mom the best doctors instead that very night
dominica goes to the hotel eustinov is staying
in wearing the dress she's been given she goes
to the bar to wait for houstonov to approach her
first which he does dominica tells him she's come
to see him wanting to feel special again so they
leave for her room she asks the guards to give
them privacy and eustanov starts undressing as
soon as his men leave the room then asks dominica
to do the same she does so after some hesitation
and when she comes closer eustanov wastes no time
in taking advantage of her their intercourse
is suddenly interrupted when a man wearing a
black helmet appears behind houstonov and cuts his
throat the body is thrown on the floor and after
asking for silence with a gesture the man throws
dominica a coat for her to cover her blood-stained
body and takes her out of the room through a
back door when they make it to the parking lot
he shoots an employee before getting them on his
bike and driving away to an abandoned building
inside the man takes off his helmet to reveal
sergey mataran another secret service agent
sent by yvonne who is in another room in the same
building together with korchnoy watching dominica
on the security cameras when korchnoy mentions
she's a witness and she should be eliminated
yvonne mentions she could be useful yvonne changes
rooms to go see dominica and confesses he did know
what would happen in that room and didn't tell
her because she wouldn't have done it if she knew
he makes her an offer then since she's so good at
this she can be sent to a special institution to
be trained to be an agent if she refuses he won't
be able to protect her so she can only accept
dominica leaves for the institution a couple of
days later when she arrives there she's received
by matron the headmistress of sparrow school
she gives dominica a fake name to use in the
school before taking her to her room classes
start soon after that matron talks about the
modern world being in chaos and how russia is the
only country willing to make sacrifices to fix it
the students will be trained to be sparrows spies
who specialized in seduction and psychological
manipulation dominica and a student named
victor are called to the front of the class
and asked to strip victor does so without issues
but dominica doesn't dare matron scolds her for it
we then cut to nate who's been summoned by the
cia's discipline panel to be informed he'll be
suspended for his mistake in russia and he can't
leave the country nate protests because their mole
marble has been working with nate for three years
and won't trust anybody else but he isn't heard
back in the sparrow school during a class with
matron she tells them they need to be able to
identify what their targets want she put some
videos on tv for examples for them to work on
the first one victor guesses wrong and
dominica corrects him earning her his dislike
the second is guest by another female student who
is called to the front of the class and told she
will have to use her mouth on the man from the
video who is brought into the classroom in cuffs
the girl gets on her knees but is incapable of
doing it she falls to the floor crying matron
reminds all the students that they need to learn
to trick their bodies and teaches them some basic
seduction tricks back in the usa nate notices he's
being tailed and informs his superiors of this
he learns that the cia hasn't heard anything from
marvel and he takes the chance to remind them he
will talk if it's nate that contacts him they
reach a deal he can't still go back to russia
but they can send him to a country nearby so the
russian secret service will know he's around and
marble will resurface nate accepts for the team to
come with him meanwhile in the school the students
are asked to give a welcome to a group of soldiers
that just returned home from war dominica chooses
a young man and takes him to her room where she
successfully gives him a hand later that day
matron and the students watch all the videos of
their performances with the soldiers matron tells
dominica her technique was good but she still
hasn't learned to give herself up after class
is over dominica goes to the showers where she's
assaulted by victor she defends herself by taking
the water tap from the wall and hitting him with
it in the meantime yvonne korchnoy and zacharov
are discussing the fact nade has been relocated
to budapest they want to do something about it but
they know the president doesn't want them anything
that may come off as antagonistic against the usa
yvonne proposes they give the mission to someone
else back in the sparrow school matron and a newly
arrived courtnoy questioned dominica for her
attack on victor matron thinks dominica still
has potential courtnoy asks for a moment alone
with her after everyone else leaves the room he
questions dominica again and she explains she
owes and serves the state not her classmate
she's allowed to go back to class where matron
once again calls her to the front while courchnoy
watches from a security camera dominica is shown
a picture of victor and asked what he wants as he
enters the room matron orders her to give him what
he wants victor asks her to turn around dominica
refuses and gets into action as she undresses he
tells victor to look at only her and once she's
completely naked she sits on the table with her
legs open egging him on to take her victor can't
get it up and runs away when she teases him for
it then dominica answers matron's question what
he wants is power courchnoy is impressed moments
later matron meets with dominica in private again
and tells her she'll be sent back to moscow days
later while reuniting with her mom at their place
dominica receives a call that tells her to meet
yvonne at a restaurant when she makes it there
she sits with him and he explains her next mission
she'll be sent to budapest to befriend nate and
gain his trust so she can learn the identity
of their mole he gives her a new passport and
documents with a new name dominica leaves without
eating she makes it to budapest a couple of days
later and goes to stay at an apartment she'll
share with a fellow sparrow marta later that day
she meets with her new boss station chief maxim
valantov and asks him for some information on nate
afterward she follows nate around to learn his
routine the next day dominica starts going to the
same swimming pool as nate and lets him go to her
when they leave the building they chit-chat a bit
but dominica plays hard to get she also makes up
a story about being a translator for the embassy
the following day however she doesn't find nate
at the pool and the receptionist tells her id
has gone missing turns out nate already knows she
isn't what she says we cut to him explaining to
his superiors that she's been using many names
and making the connection to yvonne he thinks
she's valuable and that her using her real name is
a provocation after some hesitation his superiors
allow him to get closer to her to gather intel
after going to volantov to report her progress
and ask for an embassy pass dominica visits the
embassy and sees marta chatting with stephanie
boucher an american politician nate interrupts her
staring to chat admitting he was the one to steal
her id from the pool and asks her out to dinner
the next day at 8 dominica accepts before leaving
back in her apartment dominica searches marta's
room and discovers she's been buying intelligence
from boucher marta returns home then but doesn't
catch her in the act she gives dominica a copy of
the report valantov sent to moscow apparently
dominica has made an enemy the next day after
work she follows valantov into a bar and asks him
to buy her time with a better report than provokes
him into punching her by making fun of his small
member his violence is now on the security cameras
and dominica tells him he'll write a better
report or she'll take the recording to the police
while all this is happening nate is alone in a
restaurant waiting for his date thinking he's
been stood up he leaves the place but dominica
is following him closely back in his apartment
nate receives another coded message on the
phone that he quickly writes down and deciphers
it says vienna he's about to leave when a crying
dominica rings his bell he allows her to come in
while sharing some whiskey dominica tells him
his boss assaulted him when nate asks her how
she knows where he lives she raises the volume
of the tv so they can't be heard dominica asks
him what happened in that park in russia and
kisses him after he tells her nate tells her to
go home and figure out what she wants the next day
yvonne visits dominica before leaving for vienna
he asks about her progress with nate since their
superiors are getting impatient dubai time she
lies and tells him she's also working with marta
on her bouche case but she'll need more money
yvonne accepts and asks for his code to leave
dominica gets it for him but not without secretly
taking a peek at his passport after he's
gone marta approaches dominica with her gun
she overhead the lie and is angry because
the bouche case is supposed to be only hers
dominica promises she'll give her all the credit
and more money she just lied for the extra time
marta only accepts because she has no other choice
later on dominica goes to vienna and opens a bank
account there while marta visits velantov to
tell him she knows how to get rid of dominica
dominica returns to her place that night and finds
marta murdered in the bathtub suddenly sergey
appears behind her and grabs her by the neck to
pass on a warning this is what happens to those
that share secrets he also tells her to call the
police before he disappears we cut to nate there
who is reporting to his superiors about having
met with marble in vienna marble has given him
some files confirming dominica is a sparrow and
that makes nate think she's even more recruitable
meanwhile dominica is being interrogated by the
police but she tells them nothing when she leaves
the precinct she finds nate outside waiting for
her they go back to his place where he confesses
he knows she's a sparrow dominica tells him her
story in return putting emphasis on the fact she
only cares about her mother's well-being nate
asks her to be a double agent for him promising
her protection she replies she needs to sleep he
gives her his room later in the night she leaves
the room and joins nate on the touch after asking
if she can trust him and getting a positive answer
she makes love to him the next morning after she
confirms she accepts his deal dominica goes back
to her routine writes a fake report on nate saying
she has him in her pocket and then returns to her
place to wait for his signal which is a simple
phone call that plays her favorite song dominica
meets with nate superiors and is put through a
liar detector test to see if she can be trusted
when they accept her she asks for money they
laugh at her but they change their minds when she
tells them she can give them boucher the following
friday the whole team flies to london to meet with
boucher dominica stays in a special hotel room
the cia prepared for her with security cameras to
monitor her and a set of discs hidden under a desk
to change for the real ones later moments later
while she's at the bar waiting for boucher he's
surprised by the sudden appearance of velontov who
supposedly wants to help dominica sends him to her
room otherwise his presence will scare bouchet off
bouchet arrives soon afterward and dominica
goes to her explaining marta sent her bouche
doesn't like this change and is about to leave but
dominica convinces her to stay when she threatens
her with some dangerous pictures and mentions
the money both women go to dominica's room where
valantov is waiting boucher gives her the discs
in exchange for the money and dominica pretends to
take the discs to her computer to check their reel
when she's actually trading them with the cia's
dominica and volantov leave then after telling
bouche to wait an hour to leave too but boucher
is anxious and drunk so she leaves soon after when
she makes it to the street she notices she's being
followed and gets scared so she throws the
money in a trash can and crosses the street
where a truck hits and kills her dominica
is in a car with velantov when this happens
and he quickly gets the news on the phone he tells
dominica they've been given orders to return to
moscow immediately and takes her passport when
they make it to moscow yvonne takes the discs from
valantov before arresting him both he and dominica
are under suspicion of having helped the americans
when asked about it she denies it so she starts
being tortured in different ways for the real
answer but she doesn't give in they even show
her a video of how velantov was shot for lying
but when the interrogator points at her head and
she lies again nothing happens yvonne takes over
then and dominica manages to manipulate him into
protecting her she's allowed to return home but
when she gets there she feels so dirty she doesn't
let her mom hug her after a difficult meeting with
korchnoy and zakharov yvonne returns to his
apartment where dominica is waiting he tells
her they've granted her request to let her keep
working on nate she kisses him before leaving
dominica returns to budapest and meets with nate
they go to his apartment where he expresses his
suspicions of her quick release dominica convinces
him to relocate her and her mom to america and to
give her more money he accepts before they make
love in the middle of the night dominica wakes
up when she hears a noise she goes to the kitchen
to find sergey torturing nate she pretends to be
on his side at first even helping him hurt nate
to get the name of the mole but when sergey gets
distracted she hits him back and helps nate cut
the straps tying him to the chair the three of
them get into a fight that doesn't last long
sergei slips and dominica takes the chance to
stab him she wakes up in the hospital the next
day and leaves her room to have a smoke she's
then approached by korchnoy who reveals himself as
marble he thinks he'll be caught soon and doesn't
want to die in vain so he asks dominica to expose
him so she can become a national hero and take his
place as a mole she doesn't give him a definite
answer but after he leaves she checks on nate
and leaves as well she gives herself up to the
police and asks to see the russian ambassador when
she's taken to him she tells him to call zakharov
and inform him she has the name of the mole which
she'll give him in exchange for her freedom a
meeting to do the exchange is arranged later that
night at an airport nate will walk with her to
confirm the identity of the mole and she mustn't
try to run or she'll be shot nate is angry with
her because he thinks she's used him but she has a
surprise when the russians approach them with the
mole they take the bag off his face to reveal it's
not korchnoy it's her uncle yvonne who has been
framed thanks to dominica fabricating evidence
since she made it to budapest the first time nate
quickly catches on and confirms yvonne is the mole
after the exchange is done ivan is shot by a
russian sniper and dominica is taken away on a
helicopter back in russia she's named a heroine
and allowed to have a good life with her mom
the movie ends when she receives a phone call and
the only sound on the line is her favorite song
make sure to subscribe and turn on notifications
to watch more videos like this thanks for watching